cmd/s3-exporter/README.md, before:

# S3 exporter

A simple exporter for S3-compatible buckets that will export metrics partitioned by Kubermatic cluster names.

It assumes all objects belonging to a given cluster have a prefix of `${CLUSTERNAME}-`.

Usage:

```
Usage of ./s3-exporter:
  -access-key-id string
        S3 Access key, defaults to the ACCESS_KEY_ID environment variable
  -address string
        The port to listen on (default ":9340")
  -bucket string
        The bucket to monitor (default "kubermatic-etcd-backups")
  -endpoint string
        The s3 endpoint, e.G. https://my-s3.com:9000
  -kubeconfig string
        Path to a kubeconfig. Only required if out-of-cluster.
  -log-debug
        Enable more verbose logging
  -log-format value
        Use one of [JSON, Console] to change the log output format (default JSON)
  -secret-access-key string
        S3 Secret Access Key, defaults to the SECRET_ACCESS_KEY evnironment variable
```

Releasing:

```
# Go to the project dir
cd $GOPATH/src/k8c.io/kubermatic

# Increment the tag variable in the publish script
vim hack/publish-s3-exporter.sh

# Publish the new version
./hack/publish-s3-exporter.sh

# Optional: Set the new version in the chart
vim charts/kubermatic/values.yaml
```

Available metrics:

```
# HELP go_gc_duration_seconds A summary of the GC invocation durations.
# TYPE go_gc_duration_seconds summary
go_gc_duration_seconds{quantile="0"} 0.000227623
go_gc_duration_seconds{quantile="0.25"} 0.000227623
go_gc_duration_seconds{quantile="0.5"} 0.000227623
go_gc_duration_seconds{quantile="0.75"} 0.000227623
go_gc_duration_seconds{quantile="1"} 0.000227623
go_gc_duration_seconds_sum 0.000227623
go_gc_duration_seconds_count 1
# HELP go_goroutines Number of goroutines that currently exist.
# TYPE go_goroutines gauge
go_goroutines 11
# HELP go_info Information about the Go environment.
# TYPE go_info gauge
go_info{version="go1.10.3"} 1
# HELP go_memstats_alloc_bytes Number of bytes allocated and still in use.
# TYPE go_memstats_alloc_bytes gauge
go_memstats_alloc_bytes 2.30764e+06
# HELP go_memstats_alloc_bytes_total Total number of bytes allocated, even if freed.
# TYPE go_memstats_alloc_bytes_total counter
go_memstats_alloc_bytes_total 3.989992e+06
# HELP go_memstats_buck_hash_sys_bytes Number of bytes used by the profiling bucket hash table.
# TYPE go_memstats_buck_hash_sys_bytes gauge
go_memstats_buck_hash_sys_bytes 1.44341e+06
# HELP go_memstats_frees_total Total number of frees.
# TYPE go_memstats_frees_total counter
go_memstats_frees_total 22412
# HELP go_memstats_gc_cpu_fraction The fraction of this program's available CPU time used by the GC since the program started.
# TYPE go_memstats_gc_cpu_fraction gauge
go_memstats_gc_cpu_fraction 0.00011310899473488526
# HELP go_memstats_gc_sys_bytes Number of bytes used for garbage collection system metadata.
# TYPE go_memstats_gc_sys_bytes gauge
go_memstats_gc_sys_bytes 339968
# HELP go_memstats_heap_alloc_bytes Number of heap bytes allocated and still in use.
# TYPE go_memstats_heap_alloc_bytes gauge
go_memstats_heap_alloc_bytes 2.30764e+06
# HELP go_memstats_heap_idle_bytes Number of heap bytes waiting to be used.
# TYPE go_memstats_heap_idle_bytes gauge
go_memstats_heap_idle_bytes 1.47456e+06
# HELP go_memstats_heap_inuse_bytes Number of heap bytes that are in use.
# TYPE go_memstats_heap_inuse_bytes gauge
go_memstats_heap_inuse_bytes 4.161536e+06
# HELP go_memstats_heap_objects Number of allocated objects.
# TYPE go_memstats_heap_objects gauge
go_memstats_heap_objects 21580
# HELP go_memstats_heap_released_bytes Number of heap bytes released to OS.
# TYPE go_memstats_heap_released_bytes gauge
go_memstats_heap_released_bytes 0
# HELP go_memstats_heap_sys_bytes Number of heap bytes obtained from system.
# TYPE go_memstats_heap_sys_bytes gauge
go_memstats_heap_sys_bytes 5.636096e+06
# HELP go_memstats_last_gc_time_seconds Number of seconds since 1970 of last garbage collection.
# TYPE go_memstats_last_gc_time_seconds gauge
go_memstats_last_gc_time_seconds 1.5311323260978227e+09
# HELP go_memstats_lookups_total Total number of pointer lookups.
# TYPE go_memstats_lookups_total counter
go_memstats_lookups_total 47
# HELP go_memstats_mallocs_total Total number of mallocs.
# TYPE go_memstats_mallocs_total counter
go_memstats_mallocs_total 43992
# HELP go_memstats_mcache_inuse_bytes Number of bytes in use by mcache structures.
# TYPE go_memstats_mcache_inuse_bytes gauge
go_memstats_mcache_inuse_bytes 6944
# HELP go_memstats_mcache_sys_bytes Number of bytes used for mcache structures obtained from system.
# TYPE go_memstats_mcache_sys_bytes gauge
go_memstats_mcache_sys_bytes 16384
# HELP go_memstats_mspan_inuse_bytes Number of bytes in use by mspan structures.
# TYPE go_memstats_mspan_inuse_bytes gauge
go_memstats_mspan_inuse_bytes 63080
# HELP go_memstats_mspan_sys_bytes Number of bytes used for mspan structures obtained from system.
# TYPE go_memstats_mspan_sys_bytes gauge
go_memstats_mspan_sys_bytes 81920
# HELP go_memstats_next_gc_bytes Number of heap bytes when next garbage collection will take place.
# TYPE go_memstats_next_gc_bytes gauge
go_memstats_next_gc_bytes 4.194304e+06
# HELP go_memstats_other_sys_bytes Number of bytes used for other system allocations.
# TYPE go_memstats_other_sys_bytes gauge
go_memstats_other_sys_bytes 1.270438e+06
# HELP go_memstats_stack_inuse_bytes Number of bytes in use by the stack allocator.
# TYPE go_memstats_stack_inuse_bytes gauge
go_memstats_stack_inuse_bytes 655360
# HELP go_memstats_stack_sys_bytes Number of bytes obtained from system for stack allocator.
# TYPE go_memstats_stack_sys_bytes gauge
go_memstats_stack_sys_bytes 655360
# HELP go_memstats_sys_bytes Number of bytes obtained from system.
# TYPE go_memstats_sys_bytes gauge
go_memstats_sys_bytes 9.443576e+06
# HELP go_threads Number of OS threads created.
# TYPE go_threads gauge
go_threads 9
# HELP kubermatic_s3_empty_object_count The amount of empty objects (size=0) partitioned by cluster
# TYPE kubermatic_s3_empty_object_count gauge
kubermatic_s3_empty_object_count{cluster="e2e-test-runner-bqd8w"} 0
# HELP kubermatic_s3_object_count The amount of objects partitioned by cluster
# TYPE kubermatic_s3_object_count gauge
kubermatic_s3_object_count{cluster="e2e-test-runner-bqd8w"} 0
# HELP kubermatic_s3_object_last_modified_time_seconds Modification time of the last modified object
# TYPE kubermatic_s3_object_last_modified_time_seconds gauge
kubermatic_s3_object_last_modified_time_seconds{cluster="e2e-test-runner-bqd8w"} -6.795364578871345e+18
# HELP process_cpu_seconds_total Total user and system CPU time spent in seconds.
# TYPE process_cpu_seconds_total counter
process_cpu_seconds_total 0.05
# HELP process_max_fds Maximum number of open file descriptors.
# TYPE process_max_fds gauge
process_max_fds 1024
# HELP process_open_fds Number of open file descriptors.
# TYPE process_open_fds gauge
process_open_fds 9
# HELP process_resident_memory_bytes Resident memory size in bytes.
# TYPE process_resident_memory_bytes gauge
process_resident_memory_bytes 1.8542592e+07
# HELP process_start_time_seconds Start time of the process since unix epoch in seconds.
# TYPE process_start_time_seconds gauge
process_start_time_seconds 1.53113231843e+09
# HELP process_virtual_memory_bytes Virtual memory size in bytes.
# TYPE process_virtual_memory_bytes gauge
process_virtual_memory_bytes 3.0359552e+07
# HELP promhttp_metric_handler_requests_in_flight Current number of scrapes being served.
# TYPE promhttp_metric_handler_requests_in_flight gauge
promhttp_metric_handler_requests_in_flight 1
# HELP promhttp_metric_handler_requests_total Total number of scrapes by HTTP status code.
# TYPE promhttp_metric_handler_requests_total counter
promhttp_metric_handler_requests_total{code="200"} 2
promhttp_metric_handler_requests_total{code="500"} 0
promhttp_metric_handler_requests_total{code="503"} 0
```

Commit message:

add support for -ca-bundle to the s3-exporter

cmd/s3-exporter/README.md, after:

# S3 exporter

A simple exporter for S3-compatible buckets that will export metrics partitioned by Kubermatic cluster names.

It assumes all objects belonging to a given cluster have a prefix of `${CLUSTERNAME}-`.

Usage:

```
Usage of ./s3-exporter:
  -access-key-id string
        S3 Access key, defaults to the ACCESS_KEY_ID environment variable
  -address string
        The port to listen on (default ":9340")
  -bucket string
        The bucket to monitor (default "kubermatic-etcd-backups")
  -ca-bundle string
        Filename of the CA bundle to use (if not given, default system certificates are used)
  -endpoint string
        The s3 endpoint, e.G. https://my-s3.com:9000
  -kubeconfig string
        Path to a kubeconfig. Only required if out-of-cluster.
  -log-debug
        Enable more verbose logging
  -log-format value
        Use one of [JSON, Console] to change the log output format (default JSON)
  -secret-access-key string
        S3 Secret Access Key, defaults to the SECRET_ACCESS_KEY evnironment variable
```

Releasing:

```
# Go to the project dir
cd $GOPATH/src/k8c.io/kubermatic

# Increment the tag variable in the publish script
vim hack/publish-s3-exporter.sh

# Publish the new version
./hack/publish-s3-exporter.sh

# Optional: Set the new version in the chart
vim charts/kubermatic/values.yaml
```

Available metrics:

```
# HELP go_gc_duration_seconds A summary of the GC invocation durations.
# TYPE go_gc_duration_seconds summary
go_gc_duration_seconds{quantile="0"} 0.000227623
go_gc_duration_seconds{quantile="0.25"} 0.000227623
go_gc_duration_seconds{quantile="0.5"} 0.000227623
go_gc_duration_seconds{quantile="0.75"} 0.000227623
go_gc_duration_seconds{quantile="1"} 0.000227623
go_gc_duration_seconds_sum 0.000227623
go_gc_duration_seconds_count 1
# HELP go_goroutines Number of goroutines that currently exist.
# TYPE go_goroutines gauge
go_goroutines 11
# HELP go_info Information about the Go environment.
# TYPE go_info gauge
go_info{version="go1.10.3"} 1
# HELP go_memstats_alloc_bytes Number of bytes allocated and still in use.
# TYPE go_memstats_alloc_bytes gauge
go_memstats_alloc_bytes 2.30764e+06
# HELP go_memstats_alloc_bytes_total Total number of bytes allocated, even if freed.
# TYPE go_memstats_alloc_bytes_total counter
go_memstats_alloc_bytes_total 3.989992e+06
# HELP go_memstats_buck_hash_sys_bytes Number of bytes used by the profiling bucket hash table.
# TYPE go_memstats_buck_hash_sys_bytes gauge
go_memstats_buck_hash_sys_bytes 1.44341e+06
# HELP go_memstats_frees_total Total number of frees.
# TYPE go_memstats_frees_total counter
go_memstats_frees_total 22412
# HELP go_memstats_gc_cpu_fraction The fraction of this program's available CPU time used by the GC since the program started.
# TYPE go_memstats_gc_cpu_fraction gauge
go_memstats_gc_cpu_fraction 0.00011310899473488526
# HELP go_memstats_gc_sys_bytes Number of bytes used for garbage collection system metadata.
# TYPE go_memstats_gc_sys_bytes gauge
go_memstats_gc_sys_bytes 339968
# HELP go_memstats_heap_alloc_bytes Number of heap bytes allocated and still in use.
# TYPE go_memstats_heap_alloc_bytes gauge
go_memstats_heap_alloc_bytes 2.30764e+06
# HELP go_memstats_heap_idle_bytes Number of heap bytes waiting to be used.
# TYPE go_memstats_heap_idle_bytes gauge
go_memstats_heap_idle_bytes 1.47456e+06
# HELP go_memstats_heap_inuse_bytes Number of heap bytes that are in use.
# TYPE go_memstats_heap_inuse_bytes gauge
go_memstats_heap_inuse_bytes 4.161536e+06
# HELP go_memstats_heap_objects Number of allocated objects.
# TYPE go_memstats_heap_objects gauge
go_memstats_heap_objects 21580
# HELP go_memstats_heap_released_bytes Number of heap bytes released to OS.
# TYPE go_memstats_heap_released_bytes gauge
go_memstats_heap_released_bytes 0
# HELP go_memstats_heap_sys_bytes Number of heap bytes obtained from system.
# TYPE go_memstats_heap_sys_bytes gauge
go_memstats_heap_sys_bytes 5.636096e+06
# HELP go_memstats_last_gc_time_seconds Number of seconds since 1970 of last garbage collection.
# TYPE go_memstats_last_gc_time_seconds gauge
go_memstats_last_gc_time_seconds 1.5311323260978227e+09
# HELP go_memstats_lookups_total Total number of pointer lookups.
# TYPE go_memstats_lookups_total counter
go_memstats_lookups_total 47
# HELP go_memstats_mallocs_total Total number of mallocs.
# TYPE go_memstats_mallocs_total counter
go_memstats_mallocs_total 43992
# HELP go_memstats_mcache_inuse_bytes Number of bytes in use by mcache structures.
# TYPE go_memstats_mcache_inuse_bytes gauge
go_memstats_mcache_inuse_bytes 6944
# HELP go_memstats_mcache_sys_bytes Number of bytes used for mcache structures obtained from system.
# TYPE go_memstats_mcache_sys_bytes gauge
go_memstats_mcache_sys_bytes 16384
# HELP go_memstats_mspan_inuse_bytes Number of bytes in use by mspan structures.
# TYPE go_memstats_mspan_inuse_bytes gauge
go_memstats_mspan_inuse_bytes 63080
# HELP go_memstats_mspan_sys_bytes Number of bytes used for mspan structures obtained from system.
# TYPE go_memstats_mspan_sys_bytes gauge
go_memstats_mspan_sys_bytes 81920
# HELP go_memstats_next_gc_bytes Number of heap bytes when next garbage collection will take place.
# TYPE go_memstats_next_gc_bytes gauge
go_memstats_next_gc_bytes 4.194304e+06
# HELP go_memstats_other_sys_bytes Number of bytes used for other system allocations.
# TYPE go_memstats_other_sys_bytes gauge
go_memstats_other_sys_bytes 1.270438e+06
# HELP go_memstats_stack_inuse_bytes Number of bytes in use by the stack allocator.
# TYPE go_memstats_stack_inuse_bytes gauge
go_memstats_stack_inuse_bytes 655360
# HELP go_memstats_stack_sys_bytes Number of bytes obtained from system for stack allocator.
# TYPE go_memstats_stack_sys_bytes gauge
go_memstats_stack_sys_bytes 655360
# HELP go_memstats_sys_bytes Number of bytes obtained from system.
# TYPE go_memstats_sys_bytes gauge
go_memstats_sys_bytes 9.443576e+06
# HELP go_threads Number of OS threads created.
# TYPE go_threads gauge
go_threads 9
# HELP kubermatic_s3_empty_object_count The amount of empty objects (size=0) partitioned by cluster
# TYPE kubermatic_s3_empty_object_count gauge
kubermatic_s3_empty_object_count{cluster="e2e-test-runner-bqd8w"} 0
# HELP kubermatic_s3_object_count The amount of objects partitioned by cluster
# TYPE kubermatic_s3_object_count gauge
kubermatic_s3_object_count{cluster="e2e-test-runner-bqd8w"} 0
# HELP kubermatic_s3_object_last_modified_time_seconds Modification time of the last modified object
# TYPE kubermatic_s3_object_last_modified_time_seconds gauge
kubermatic_s3_object_last_modified_time_seconds{cluster="e2e-test-runner-bqd8w"} -6.795364578871345e+18
# HELP process_cpu_seconds_total Total user and system CPU time spent in seconds.
# TYPE process_cpu_seconds_total counter
process_cpu_seconds_total 0.05
# HELP process_max_fds Maximum number of open file descriptors.
# TYPE process_max_fds gauge
process_max_fds 1024
# HELP process_open_fds Number of open file descriptors.
# TYPE process_open_fds gauge
process_open_fds 9
# HELP process_resident_memory_bytes Resident memory size in bytes.
# TYPE process_resident_memory_bytes gauge
process_resident_memory_bytes 1.8542592e+07
# HELP process_start_time_seconds Start time of the process since unix epoch in seconds.
# TYPE process_start_time_seconds gauge
process_start_time_seconds 1.53113231843e+09
# HELP process_virtual_memory_bytes Virtual memory size in bytes.
# TYPE process_virtual_memory_bytes gauge
process_virtual_memory_bytes 3.0359552e+07
# HELP promhttp_metric_handler_requests_in_flight Current number of scrapes being served.
# TYPE promhttp_metric_handler_requests_in_flight gauge
promhttp_metric_handler_requests_in_flight 1
# HELP promhttp_metric_handler_requests_total Total number of scrapes by HTTP status code.
# TYPE promhttp_metric_handler_requests_total counter
promhttp_metric_handler_requests_total{code="200"} 2
promhttp_metric_handler_requests_total{code="500"} 0
promhttp_metric_handler_requests_total{code="503"} 0
```
